# The .ORG Application

## typesofants.org organization description

typesofants.org is a community art project about bringing awareness to the
virality of modern media, where flashy headlines win against well-worded essays,
while itself being composed of absurd post-like content. The typesofants.org
mission is to reflect on what it means to grow up, lose friends, gain
experiences, and experience life, put into a silly format designed for shareable
popularity of metaphor of common objects.

## What challenge, opportunity or situation was the nominee seeking to address?

typesofants.org is a response to the digitalization of teenage life and attempts
to address the lack of attention into the consequences of changing the primary
format in which young people communicate. The ramifications of the internet age
are unexplored, and typesofants.org attempts to share familiar pre-internet
feelings of familiarity, kinship, brotherhood, achievement, and loneliness
through the lens of a medium better designed for transmitting ones and zeroes.

The post-pandemic social structure of large international universities sit at
odds to the way we aim to communicate. Social media and online content attempts
to fill the gaps, but can feel impersonal, overly professional, and above all
uncaring.

## What was the nominee’s approach to addressing the challenge, opportunity or situation?

typesofants.org focuses on short-form content similar to tweets designed to be
seamlessly adopted into the portfolio of online users. It focuses on "ants" as a
standin for a common object, something everyone knows but hasn't spent much time
thinking about, something that only few have strong feelings for. The ants
content are merely trojan horses for the message typesofants.org is meant to
carry, to address the emotional missing pieces of the digital revolution.

Users anonymously promote the ants that they suggest, and those suggestions are
then published for other users to see. The anonymity provides vulnerability to
protect users from shying away from the difficult-to-communicate. Vulnerability
is also protected by requiring that ant suggestions are really about ant, and
all suggestions go through community validation processes.

Other social media platforms are focused around ads and clicks, and are largely
seen as a numbers-game, where more followers is more better.

## What was the outcome of the nominee’s actions to address the challenge, opportunity or situation? Include any specific results or testimonials from affected community members

typesofants.org has, from an initial starting size of 23 ants, grown to 977
accepted ants, with over 3000 suggested ants, and 3000 unique monthly users. The
typesofants.org project has been a success, where difficult to express emotions
have been packaged and shared:

- Promotion: `ant that buys cheese curds at king soopers` (suggested 2024-05-14)
- Familiarity: `ant who housed your burger` (suggested 2024-05-06)
- Self Reflection: `ant that plays terrible games over and over again (insane)`
  (suggested 2023-01-24)
- Learning: `united states v. ant (real court case)` (suggested 2022-05-19)
- Hope: `ant with a bday coming up` (suggested 2024-03-03)
- Embarrassment: `ant that is secretly in love with its best friend` (suggested
  2024-05-22)
- Shared Experiences: `ant getting a pap smear` (suggested 2024-10-08)
- Politics: `ant who is sad about roe v. wade` (suggested 2022-07-17)
- Growth: `ant who cant sleep because of a social faux pas committed years ago`
  (suggested 2023-08-18)
- Longing: `ant that misses the good old days` (suggested 2024-03-03)
- Shame: `ant gaming on the down low (watch over what)` (suggested 2023-03-31)
- Humanity: `ant who questions his existence` (suggested 2022-05-15)
- Duty: `ant who approves the ant suggestions` (suggested 2022-05-24)
- Achievement: `ant graduating from college` (suggested 2022-09-05)
- Fear:
  `ant who made it to the top floor but found 0 crumbs and doesn't know how to get home`
  (suggested 2022-09-21)

And many more. It has been a conversation starter for all members of the
organization, and satisfying to our users.

## What new and innovative ways did the nominee address the challenge and how did that inspire others to engage or take on similar challenges themselves?

Social media platforms and their founders are usually not regarded favorably.
The use of the platforms has led to scandals like Facebook's involvement in the
US federal election in 2016, Facebook's CambridgeAnalytica data leak in 2018,
and Facebook's admission of over 2.2 billion bot-accounts in 2019. In the eyes
of the users, tech giants are no longer looking out for humanity.

Instagram, TikTok, Facebook, Twitter, and Truth Social are centered around
friends or followers, and are fundamentally about people. typesofants.org's
innovation is that online platforms don't have to be about connecting people to
people, but rather people to emotions. It can be enough to find solace or
understanding in reading the insights of others.

The validation process typesofants.org has for new ant suggestions was also
invented. Proposed ants are community-voted. This is not only to ensure the
project remains focused, but offers a fundamentally new way to view online
content: in a group setting, as a joke. Other platforms focus on tweaking their
algorithms to understand their individual users better, but typesofants.org has
seen the most involvement when suggestions and users are thinking about the
group, the reader, their future selves.
