# A10P SMS Messaging answers

## Campaign purpose

This campaign is the typesofants.org authentication flow. The user receives text
messages containing one-time codes, short codes that they use to prove to the
service that they own that phone number. The user can create an account before
the associating a phone number or email to their account, but many of the
APIs/functionality of the service is locked until they have performed that step.

This is to reduce abuse of the website's resources to spammers and help the
service's users be "real people" more than bots. It also enhances security,
where users no longer need to worry about their password being leaked. Even if
their password is leaked, their two-factor authentication method (phone number,
email) can be used for recovery.

## Consent

End-users consent by signing up to the website, for example in the signup:
https://beta.typesofants.org/login/ page. They choose to type their phone number
and signup, which these days always requires two-factor authentication. The
campaign is only used for 2fa or notification purposes.

During the signup process (after username/password have been chosen), the user
then chooses their two-factor authentication method, either phone number or
email. The text on screen during that part of the flow shows "you will receive a
code" language, which the user then consents to by continuing to input their
information.

They can either opt-in to receiving one-time codes via their email or phone
number.

## Samples

```txt
[typesofants.org] your one-time code is: ant-1nd97
[typesofants.org] your one-time code is: ant-n2i10
[typesofants.org] your one-time code is: ant-n218s
[typesofants.org] your one-time code is: ant-k0hsa
[typesofants.org] your one-time code is: ant-i4psi
```
